.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\"TOPICS "Topics:"
.TH FAR2L 1 "April 2025" "FAR2L Version 2.6.5" "Linux fork of FAR Manager v2"
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH "NAME"
far2l \- Two-panel file manager, with built\-in terminal and other usefulness\'es.
.\"SKIP_SECTION"
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B far2l
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR] [\fB\-cd \fI\,APATH\/\fR \fB\-cd \fI\,PPATH\/\fR]]
.br
.B far2ledit
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR] [\fI\,FILENAME\/\fR]
.\"NODE "DESCRIPTION"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B far2l
is a Linux fork of FAR Manager v2, directory browser/file manager for
Unix\-like operating systems.
.\"NODE "OPTIONS"
.\"DONT_SPLIT"
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Display short help and exit.
.TP
\fB\--version\fR
Display the version of the program and exit.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR
Disable display of characters with codes 0 - 31 and 255.
.TP
\fB\-ag\fR
Disable display of pseudographics with codes > 127.
.TP
\fB\-an\fR
Disable display of pseudographics characters completely.
.TP
\fB\-co\fR
Forces FAR to load plugins from the cache only.
.TP
\fB\-cd\fR \fI\,APATH\/\fR|\fI\,PPATH\/\fR
Change panel's directory to specified path.
\fI\,APATH\/\fR \- path to a folder (or a file or an archive or command with prefix)
for the active panel.
\fI\,PPATH\/\fR \- path to a folder (or a file or an archive or command with prefix)
for the passive panel.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR
Do not load macros.
.TP
\fB\-ma\fR
Do not execute auto run macros.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR \fI\,IDENTITY\/\fR OR \fI\,/PATH/NAME\/\fR
Allows to specify separate settings \fI\,IDENTITY\/\fR or FS location (it override \fB\,FARSETTINGS\/\fR environment variable value).
.TP
\fB\-v\fR \fI\,FILENAME\/\fR
View the specified file.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR \- \fI\,COMMAND LINE\/\fR
 Executes given \fI\,COMMAND LINE\/\fR and opens viewer with its output.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR[\fI\,LINE\/\fR[:\fI\,POS\/\fR]] [\fI\,FILENAME\/\fR]
 Edit the specified file with optional cursor position specification or empty new file.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR[\fI\,LINE\/\fR[:\fI\,POS\/\fR]] \- \fI\,COMMAND LINE\/\fR
Executes given command line and opens editor with its output.
.TP
\fB\-set:\fI\,PARAMETER\/\fR=\fI\,VALUE\/\fR
Override the configuration parameter, see far:config for details.
.EX
Example: far2l -set:Language.Main=English -set:Screen.Clock=0 -set:XLat.Flags=0xff -set:System.FindFolders=false
.EE
.\"NODE "BACKEND OPTIONS"
.\"DONT_SPLIT"
.SH "BACKEND-SPECIFIC OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-\-tty\fP
force using TTY backend only (disable GUI/TTY autodetection)
.TP
\fB\-\-notty\fP
don't fallback to TTY backend if GUI backend failed
.TP
\fB\-\-norgb\fP
don't use true (24-bit) colors
.TP
\fB\-\-nodetect\fP, \fB\-\-nodetect\fP=[x|xi][f][w][a][k]
don't detect if TTY backend supports X11/Xi input and clipboard interaction extensions and/or disable detect f=FAR2l terminal extensions, w=win32, a=apple iTerm2, k=kovidgoyal's kitty input modes;
this switch without parameters disables all this functionality, forcing plain terminal mode for TTY backend.
.TP
\fB\-\-mortal\fP
terminate instead of going to background on getting SIGHUP (default if in Linux TTY)
.TP
\fB\-\-immortal\fP
go to background instead of terminating on getting SIGHUP (default if not in Linux TTY)
.TP
\fB\-\-x11\fP
force GUI backend to run on X11/Xwayland (force make GDK_BACKEND=x11)
.TP
\fB\-\-wayland\fP
force GUI backend to run on Wayland (force make GDK_BACKEND=wayland)
.TP
\fB\-\-ee\fP=\fI\,N\/\fR
ESC expiration in msec (default is 100, 0 to disable) to avoid need for double ESC presses (valid only in TTY mode without FAR2L extensions)
.TP
\fB\-\-primary-selection\fP
use PRIMARY selection instead of CLIPBOARD X11 selection (only for GUI backend)
.TP
\fB\-\-maximize\fP
force maximize window upon launch (only for GUI backend)
.TP
\fB\-\-nomaximize\fP
dont maximize window upon launch even if its has saved maximized state (only for GUI backend)
.TP
\fB\-\-clipboard=\fI\,SCRIPT\/\fR\fP
use external clipboard handler script that implements get/set text clipboard data via its stdin/stdout
.EE
.\"NODE "ENVIRONMENT"
.\"DONT_SPLIT"
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
\fBFARSETTINGS\fR\fP
Override location of user settings and configuration files (see option \fB\-u\fR).
.TP
\fBFAR2L_ARGS\fR\fP
All options (except \fB\-h\fR and \fB\-u\fR) also can be set via the \fB\,FAR2L_ARGS\/\fR environment variable
.EX
(for example: export FAR2L_ARGS="--tty --nodetect" and then simple far2l to force start only TTY backend).
.EE
.\"NODE "FULL HELP"
.SH "FULL HELP"
far2l historically has its own contextual help system that can be found via pressing F1 key wherever in its TUI.
.\"NODE "LICENSE"
.SH "LICENSE"
This program is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation. See the built\-in
help for details on the License and the lack of warranty.
.\"NODE "AVAILABILITY"
.SH "AVAILABILITY"
The latest version of this program can be found at
	https://github.com/elfmz/far2l
.\"NODE "SEE ALSO"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mc(1), ed(1), gpm(1), terminfo(1), view(1), sh(1), bash(1),
tcsh(1), zsh(1).
.PP
.nf
Linux fork of FAR Manager v2 on the World Wide Web:
	https://github.com/elfmz/far2l
.fi
.\"NODE "AUTHORS"
.SH "AUTHORS"
Authors and contributors are listed in the copyright file.
.\"NODE "BUGS"
.SH "BUGS"
If you want to report a problem with the program, please create bugreport
at https://github.com/elfmz/far2l/issues.
.PP
Provide a detailed description of the bug, the version of the program
you are running.
If the program crashes, we would appreciate a stack trace.

